>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, APRIL 1: KEY
MEMBERS OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION DISCLOSE THEIR
PERSONAL WEALTH; NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC'S "SEVEN THINGS YOU
NEED TO KNOW ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE"; AND IN OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, THE ISLAND OF CYPRUS,
LONG DIVIDED, RESTARTING TALKS
AIMED AT REUNIFICATION.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AMERICA'S FIRST BILLIONAIRE
PRESIDENT IS SURROUNDED BY MANY
STAFFERS WITH A VERY HIGH NET
WORTH.
A BATCH OF THE FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE FORMS TOP WHITE HOUSE
STAFFERS ARE LEGALLY REQUIRED TO
FILL OUT SHOWS 27 ADMINISTRATION
STAFFERS HAVE ASSETS WORTH A
COMBINED $2.3 BILLION.
AMONG THE WEALTHIEST ARE TRUMP'S
DAUGHTER, IVANKA, AND HER
HUSBAND, JARED KUSHNER, BOTH
SERVING AS UNPAID WEST WING
ADVISERS.
THEY HAVE ASSETS WORTH AT LEAST
$240 MILLION AND AS MUCH AS $740
MILLION, MOSTLY IN REAL ESTATE
OWNED BY BOTH FAMILIES.
NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL
DIRECTOR GARY COHN, A FORMER
PRESIDENT OF GOLDMAN SACHS, HAS
ASSETS WORTH BETWEEN $254
MILLION AND $600 MILLION.
TECHNOLOGY ADVISER REED CORDISH,
A BALTIMORE REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPER, DISCLOSED ASSETS
BETWEEN $92 MILLION AND $798
MILLION.
CHIEF POLITICAL STRATEGIST STEVE
BANNON, THE CONSERVATIVE
CONSULTANT AND MEDIA
ENTREPRENEUR, VALUED HIS ASSETS
BETWEEN $10.7 MILLION AND
$48.6 MILLION.
THE 180 DISCLOSURE FORMS
RELEASED BY THE WHITE HOUSE LAST
NIGHT DID NOT INCLUDE ANYTHING
FROM THE PRESIDENT, VICE
PRESIDENT OR CABINET MEMBERS.
IN COLOMBIA, HEAVY RAINS
TRIGGERED LETHAL LANDSLIDES
OVERNIGHT.
THE COLOMBIAN RED CROSS SAID AT
LEAST 127 PEOPLE DIED AND
MORE THAN 200 OTHERS WERE
MISSING AFTER RAINS PUSHED A
RIVER OVER ITS BANKS OVERNIGHT
AS MANY RESIDENTS WERE SLEEPING
IN THE CITY OF MOCOA NEAR THE
COUNTRY'S BORDER WITH ECUADOR.
RESCUE WORKERS HAVE BEEN
SEARCHING FOR SURVIVORS IN THE
RUBBLE OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS, AND
COLOMBIA'S PRESIDENT JUAN MANUEL
SANTOS VISITED THE SITE TODAY.
IN PARAGUAY, A PROPOSAL TO END
TERM LIMITS FOR PRESIDENT
HORACIO CARTES HAS SPARKED
VIOLENT PROTESTS.
THEY ESCALATED TODAY IN THE
CAPITAL CITY OF ASUNCION AFTER
DEMONSTRATORS TORCHED THE
COUNTRY'S CONGRESS BUILDING LAST
NIGHT AND CLASHED WITH POLICE.
ALL THIS AFTER THE NATIONAL
SENATE APPROVED AMENDING THE
COUNTRY'S CONSTITUTION TO ALLOW
PRESIDENT CARTES TO RUN FOR A
SECOND TERM NEXT YEAR.
PRESIDENTS ARE CURRENTLY LIMITED
TO ONE FIVE-YEAR TERM.
POLICE SPRAYED WATER CANNONS AND
FIRED RUBBER BULLETS TO DISPERSE
THE CROWDS.
ONE PROTESTER WAS KILLED AND
MORE THAN 200 WERE DETAINED.
IRAQ SAYS IT HAS KILLED THE
NUMBER TWO LEADER OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANT GROUP, OR ISIS.
A REPORT ON STATE-RUN TELEVISION
TODAY SAID IRAQ'S OWN AIR FORCE
PLANES KILLED AYAD AL-JUMAILI
AND OTHER ISIS LEADERS IN A
BOMBING RAID NEAR IRAQ'S BORDER
WITH SYRIA, BUT THE REPORT DID
NOT SAY WHEN THE ATTACK
OCCURRED.
JUMAILI IS DESCRIBED AS THE TOP
DEPUTY AND WAR MINISTER TO ISIS
LEADER ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI.
IRAQ ALSO SAID TODAY IT KILLED
MORE THAN 100 ISIS FIGHTERS IN
AIR STRIKES IN THE IRAQI TOWN OF
BAAJ, ALSO NEAR THE SYRIAN
BORDER.
HERE IN THE U.S., WEDNESDAY'S
DEADLY CRASH BETWEEN A PICKUP
TRUCK AND A CHURCH MINIBUS IN
TEXAS MAY BE THE RESULT OF
TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.
AN EYEWITNESS TELLS THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS THE PICKUP
DRIVER ADMITTED TO HIM HE HAD
BEEN TEXTING.
THE EYEWITNESS IS A DRIVER WHOSE
PASSENGER CAPTURED THIS VIDEO OF
THE TRUCK SWERVING ON THE TWO-
LANE ROAD 75 MILES OUTSIDE SAN
ANTONIO MOMENTS BEFORE THE HEAD-
ON COLLISION KILLED 13 PEOPLE IN
THE VAN.
THE EYEWITNESS SAYS THE 20-YEAR-
OLD PICKUP DRIVER, WHO SURVIVED,
TOLD HIM: "I'M SORRY.
I WAS TEXTING ON MY PHONE."
POLICE SAY THAT THEY ARE
INVESTIGATING DISTRACTED DRIVING
AS A CAUSE.
TEXAS IS ONE OF ONLY FOUR STATES
THAT HAVE NOT BANNED TEXTING
WHILE DRIVING.
POLICE IN ATLANTA HAVE ARRESTED
THREE PEOPLE IN CONNECTION WITH
THE FIRE THAT CAUSED THE
COLLAPSE OF A BUSY SECTION OF
INTERSTATE 85 ON THURSDAY.
ONE OF THEM WAS CHARGED WITH
ARSON TODAY FOR THE FIRE THAT
BROKE OUT IN A STORAGE AREA FOR
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND
EQUIPMENT.
AUTHORITIES SAY IT COULD BE
MONTHS BEFORE REPAIRS TO THE
HIGHWAY OVERPASS ARE COMPLETED
AND THE ROAD, JUST A FEW MILES
FROM DOWNTOWN ATLANTA, REOPENS.
>> Sreenivasan: VENEZUELA IS
UNDERGOING A CONSTITUTIONAL
CRISIS WITH ITS SUPREME COURT
TODAY REVERSING ITS OWN DECISION
FROM EARLIER THIS WEEK THAT HAD
TRANSFERRED POWERS FROM THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY TO THE COURT,
WHICH IS LOYAL TO PRESIDENT
NICOLAS MADURO.
FOLLOWING THE COURT DECISION
TODAY, MADURO SAID, "THE
CONTROVERSY IS OVER."
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER
ANATOLY KURMANAEV IS IN CARACAS
AND JOINS ME NOW VIA SKYPE TO
DISCUSS THE POLITICAL CRISIS.
ANATOLY, WE'VE BEEN COVERING THE
DISSENT OF VENEZUELA AND CERTAIN
CONDITIONS FOR SOME TIME NOW,
BUT THIS WEEK WAS DEFINITELY
VERY NEW.
WHAT WAS AT THE CORE OF THE
DECISION THAT THE SUPREME COURT
MADE?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THEY REACHED A NEW LOW, THE
SLIDE TOWARD DICTATORSHIP.
THE MOVE THIS WEEK WAS QUITE
UNPRECEDENTED AND QUITE
UNEXPECTED.
IT CAME OUT WEDNESDAY NIGHT, AS
PART OF A MUNDANE INTERPRETATION
OF AN OIL LAW, AND IT WAS JUST
ONE SENTENCE AT THE VERY END OF
A 20,000-WORD RULING THAT SAID
THAT THE SUPREME COURT WILL TAKE
OVER ALL FUNCTIONS OF THE
OPPOSITION-CONTROLLED CONGRESS.
SINCE THEN, IT HAS BEEN QUITE A
ROLLER COASTER.
IN CARACAS, WE HAD A GENERAL, A
STAUNCH ALLY OF THE GOVERNMENT,
COME OUT AND SAY THAT THE RULING
IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL, BREAKING
THE LAW.
WE HAD PRESIDENT MADURO HAVE A
VERY LONG SESSION YESTERDAY,
SAYING THIS WAS OPEN TO
UNDERSTANDING, A MUNDANE
CONTROVERSY, AND THIS MORNING,
THE COURT REVERSED ITS DECISION
ON MADURO'S ORDER, AGAIN,
SOMETHING COMPLETELY
UNPRECEDENTED.
MADURO WAS SAYING IT SHOWS THE
SEPARATION OF POWERS, AND THEY
SAY EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FACT THAT
THE PRESIDENT COULD INFLUENCE
THE COURT IS WHAT IT TOOK FOR
HIM TO REVERSE THIS OR THE
COURT TO REVERSE THIS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT AGAIN, THE
PRESIDENT SEEMS TO BE DIGGING
HIMSELF DOWN REALLY LOW RATINGS
WITH PROTESTS IN THE STREETS OF
CARACAS.
THIS AFTERNOON, PROTESTERS
BLOCKED MAIN HIGHWAY, CLASHED
WITH POLICE, TEAR GAS, AND
PROMISED MORE PROTESTS NEXT
WEEK, KEEP UP INTERNATIONAL
PRESSURE ON MADURO.
THEY PROMISED TO KEEP DRAFTING
LAWS.
SO WHATEVER WAS BEHIND THE
DECISION, IT LEFT THE COUNTRY
EVEN MORE UNSTABLE THAN BEFORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS IN THE
CONTEXT OF, YOU KNOW, JUST LAST
WEEK, WE WERE HAVING A
CONVERSATION ABOUT DECREASE IN
MEDICAL SUPPLIES, AND ALSO THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IS
STARTING TO WEIGH IN ON THIS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
PERU, COLOMBIA AND BRAZIL HAVE
RECALLED THEIR AMBASSADORS,
QUITE UNPRECEDENTED MEASURES.
AGAIN VERY STRONG CONDEMNATION,
AND MORE COMING IN EVERY DAY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ANATOLY KURMANAEV FROM THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL," JOINING US LIVE
ON SKYPE FROM CARACAS TODAY,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: A UNITED NATIONS
ENVOY WILL HOST A DINNER
TOMORROW FOR THE RIVAL LEADERS
OF CYPRUS, THE ISLAND IN THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA THAT'S BEEN
DIVIDED FOR DECADES BETWEEN ITS
TWO MAIN ETHNIC GROUPS, GREEK
AND TURKISH CYPRIOTS.
THE DINNER IS A PRELUDE TO
RESUMED PEACE TALKS TOWARD
SETTLING A CONFLICT THAT HAS
PITTED TWO NATO MEMBERS, GREECE
AND TURKEY, AGAINST EACH OTHER.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT CHRISTOPHER
LIVESAY WENT TO CYPRUS TO REPORT
ON THE ISLAND'S TROUBLED HISTORY
AND PROSPECTS FOR REUNIFICATION.
>> Reporter: THE MEDITERRANEAN
ISLAND OF CYPRUS IS A COUNTRY
DIVIDED.
THE MAJORITY, ETHNIC GREEKS,
LIVE IN THE SOUTH, IN THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, AN
INTERNATIONALLY-RECOGNIZED
GOVERNMENT AND MEMBER OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
IN THE NORTH ARE MOSTLY ETHNIC
TURKS CALLING THEMSELVES THE
TURKISH REPUBLIC OF NORTHERN
CYPRUS, OFFICIALLY RECOGNIZED BY
ONLY ONE COUNTRY, TURKEY.
IT'S A STANDOFF BORN OF A WAR
FOUR DECADES AGO.
THE FLAGS OF EACH NATIONALITY
STILL FLY OPPOSITE EACH OTHER
ACROSS A UNITED NATIONS-
CONTROLLED "BUFFER ZONE," WHICH
STRETCHES THE ENTIRE 180-MILE
LENGTH OF THE ISLAND AND CUTS
RIGHT THROUGH THE DIVIDED
CAPITAL CITY, NICOSIA.
PEOPLE PASSING FROM ONE SIDE OF
THE ISLAND TO THE OTHER MUST GO
THROUGH CHECKPOINTS.
IT'S A REALLY SHORT DISTANCE.
RITA SEVERIS, A GREEK CYPRIOT,
IS THE FOUNDER OF AN ART MUSEUM
LOCATED STEPS AWAY FROM THE
BUFFER ZONE.
THE WHOLE CITY IS DIVIDED IN
TWO?
>> YES, WITH ONE STREET.
>> Reporter: THIS IS LIKE THE
BERLIN WALL...
>> EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: ...OF NICOSIA.
EXACTLY.
ONLY THERE ISN'T A WALL.
YOU SEE THE U.N. PATROLS?
THEY'RE DOING THEIR PATROL AT
THE MOMENT TO MAKE SURE THAT
NOBODY IS IN.
>> Reporter: WHERE IS THE
TURKISH SIDE?
THE GREEK CYPRIOT GOVERNMENT
GRANTED US PERMISSION TO ENTER
THE BUFFER ZONE WITH A MILITARY
ESCORT.
WATCH FOR THE LOW HANGING WIRES
HERE.
WE SAW A BIZARRE MAZE OF RUINS,
CRUMBLED WALLS-- HOME TO NOTHING
BUT THE OCCASIONAL STRAY CAT OR
DOG.
THESE ARMED SOLDIERS ARE THE
ONLY OTHER SIGN OF LIFE IN THE
BUFFER ZONE.
ALTHOUGH GREEK AND TURKISH
CYPRIOTS HAVE LIVED TOGETHER IN
PEACE FOR CENTURIES, TENSION AND
VIOLENCE GREW IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE LAST CENTURY JUST AS CYPRUS
WAS GAINING ITS INDEPENDENCE
FROM BRITAIN.
ABDULLAH CANGIL, A TURKISH
CYPRIOT, SAYS TURKS FELT SAFER
UNDER BRITISH RULE AND FEARED
CYPRUS WOULD BECOME PART OF
GREECE.
VIOLENCE ERUPTED BETWEEN THE TWO
ETHNIC GROUPS.
>> Reporter: IN 1974, THE
SITUATION EXPLODED.
ENCOURAGED BY ATHENS, GREEK
MILITIAS SOUGHT TO UNIFY CYPRUS
WITH GREECE.
TO STOP THAT, TURKEY SENT TROOPS
ON THE PRETEXT OF PROTECTING THE
TURKISH MINORITY AND OCCUPIED
THE NORTHERN THIRD OF THE
ISLAND.
>> WE COULD SEE FAR AWAY IN THE
DISTANCE THE TURKISH
PARACHUTISTS COMING DOWN.
WE COULD SEE THE PLANES THAT
WERE BOMBARDING THE HOSPITALS
FULL OF BODIES AND WOUNDED
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: THE WAR LASTED ONLY
A FEW DAYS, BUT MORE THAN 2,000
TURKISH AND GREEK CYPRIOTS WERE
DEAD OR MISSING.
ONE OF THE FIERCEST BATTLES TOOK
PLACE AT THE ISLAND'S MAIN
AIRPORT IN NICOSIA, NOW
ABANDONED.
MAJOR ROBERT SZAKSAZON SAYS
THESE RUNWAYS ARE USED NOW ONLY
BY U.N. PEACEKEEPER HELICOPTERS.
>> YOU CAN SEE SOME BULLET HOLES
IN THE FUSELAGE.
>> Reporter: THIS CYPRUS AIRWAYS
JET HAS SAT HERE FOR 43 YEARS.
>> IT'S A SYMBOL OF THE FIGHTING
FROM THAT TIME.
IT'S STILL HERE IN THE BUFFER
ZONE.
>> Reporter: THE BUFFER ZONE WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE TEMPORARY.
BUT PARTITION WENT ON YEAR AFTER
YEAR WITH FAILED NEGOTIATIONS
AMONG THE CYPRIOTS AND THE
ISLAND'S SO-CALLED GUARANTORS OR
"MOTHERLANDS," GREECE AND
TURKEY, EACH BACKING UP THEIR
ETHNIC KIN.
>> WE'VE HAD MANY TIMES WHEN OUR
HOPES HAD RISEN, AND WE THOUGHT,
"OH, TOMORROW IT WILL BE OVER.
WE'LL JOIN OUR LAND AGAIN."
ALWAYS FELL FLAT ON OUR FACE.
>> Reporter: NOW, THERE IS NEW
HOPE FOR REUNIFICATION.
IN JANUARY, GREEK CYPRIOT
PRESIDENT NICOS ANASTASIADES AND
THE HEAD OF THE TURKISH CYPRIOT
MINORITY, MUSTAFA AKINCI, WHO
HAIL FROM THE SAME SMALL VILLAGE
IN CYPRUS AND ARE ESPECIALLY
EAGER FOR PEACE, MET IN GENEVA
FOR HIGH LEVEL TALKS BROKERED BY
THE U.N.
OZDIL NAMI IS THE CHIEF
NEGOTIATOR FOR THE TURKISH
CYPRIOTS.
>> THIS IS FINAL STAGE, MAKE OR
BREAK TIME.
EVERYBODY REALIZES THIS.
>> Reporter: ON THE OTHER SIDE
IS GREEK CYPRIOT FOREIGN
MINISTER IOANNIS KASOULIDES.
IS THIS JUST THE UMPTEENTH
EXAMPLE OF NEGOTIATIONS THAT
WILL ULTIMATELY FAIL, OR ARE WE
REALLY ON THE BRINK OF A
BREAKTHROUGH?
>> WE ARE NEARLY AT THE BRINK OF
A BREAKTHROUGH.
>> Reporter: THE BIGGEST ISSUE,
BOTH SIDES AGREE, IS SECURITY.
TURKEY STILL HAS SOME 35,000
TROOPS STATIONED IN NORTHERN
CYPRUS.
>> IN ORDER TO FEEL SECURE, WE
DEMAND THAT A CERTAIN NUMBER OF
TURKISH TROOPS REMAIN.
>> Reporter: YOU DON'T SEE THE
PRESENCE OF TURKISH TROOPS IN
CYPRUS AS A NON-STARTER FOR THE
GREEK CYPRIOT SIDE?
>> NO, NO, THESE ISSUES ARE ALL
UNDER DISCUSSION.
THERE ARE ALTERNATIVE WAYS OF
PROVIDING SECURITY FOR EVERYBODY
INVOLVED.
MILITARY ELEMENT, PRESENCE OF
TROOPS IS ONE DIMENSION.
WE WILL WAIT AND SEE HOW STRONG,
HOW MANY TROOPS.
>> FOR US, IT MAKES NO SENSE TO
KEEP TROOPS FROM TURKEY ON THE
ISLAND.
>> Reporter: BUT AREN'T THE
TURKISH TROOPS GUARANTEEING THE
SECURITY OF THE TURKISH
MINORITY?
>> WELL, WHY DON'T YOU PUT THE
RUSSIAN TROOPS TO GUARANTEE THE
RUSSIAN MINORITY IN THE BALTIC
STATES?
COME ON.
YOU HAVE TO BE REASONABLE ABOUT
WHAT WE CAN DO AND WHAT WE
CANNOT DO.
THIS WE ARE PREPARED TO
NEGOTIATE.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER MAJOR ISSUE
IS PROPERTY RIGHTS.
AFTER THE 1974 WAR, THERE WAS A
MASS MIGRATION OF BOTH PEOPLES.
MORE THAN 160,000 GREEK CYPRIOTS
LIVING IN THE NORTH FLED OR WERE
FORCED TO MOVE TO THE SOUTH, AND
40,000 TURKISH CYPRIOTS LIVING
IN THE SOUTH MOVED TO THE NORTH.
IN THE NORTHERN COASTAL TOWN OF
KYRENIA, RITA SEVERIS' FAMILY
HAD BEEN ONE OF THE BIGGEST
PROPERTY OWNERS WITH AN OLIVE
OIL FACTORY, LAND AND SEVERAL
HOUSES.
SO, BEFORE PARTITION, BEFORE
THE TURKISH INVASION, YOUR
PROPERTY WAS FEATURED ON TOURISM
POSTERS?
>> OH, YES.
>> Reporter: OVERNIGHT, HER
FAMILY, LIKE OTHER GREEK
CYPRIOTS IN THE NORTH, LOST IT
ALL.
SO, WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO THAT
PROPERTY AND TO THE OTHER
PROPERTIES YOU LOST IF CYPRUS IS
REUNIFIED?
>> WE WOULD HAVE THREE CHOICES.
RESTITUTION, PROVIDED THAT IT IS
NOT USED BY SOMEBODY; EXCHANGE--
THAT MEANS THEY TAKE OUR LAND IN
THE NORTH AND GIVE US LAND OF
EQUIVALENT VALUE IN THE SOUTH;
OR COMPENSATION.
>> Reporter: IT'S A DIFFICULT
PROBLEM FOR TURKISH CYPRIOTS,
TOO.
TAKE ABDULLAH CANGIL, ONE OF
THOSE FORCED TO GIVE UP HIS
PROPERTY IN THE SOUTH AND MOVE
NORTH.
>> I WAS 24 YEARS OLD WHEN I
CAME HERE, AND NOW I AM 67.
>> Reporter: CANGIL PUT A LOT OF
WORK AND MONEY INTO THE HOUSE.
PUT IN A POOL, PLANTED A GROVE
OF ORANGE TREES.
IT'S WHERE HE RAISED HIS FAMILY.
>> Reporter: CANGIL BELIEVES
WITHOUT UNIFICATION THERE'S
LITTLE FUTURE FOR THE TURKISH
MINORITY ON CYPRUS.
>> Reporter: IF HE HAS TO MOVE
BECAUSE OF REUNIFICATION, HE
SAYS IT WILL BE HARD BUT HE'S
WILLING TO MAKE THE SACRIFICE.
CHIEF TURKISH CYPRIOT NEGOTIATOR
OZDIL NAMI SAYS WHOLE TOWNS MAY
CHANGE HANDS IN THE REMAPPING,
BUT PAST MISTAKES WON'T BE
REPEATED.
>> IF THERE IS GOING TO BE
RELOCATION OF THOSE, IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE THROUGH FORCED
EVICTION OF ANY SORT.
SO WE ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
REFUGEE CRISIS.
>> Reporter: ECONOMICS ARE
ANOTHER FACTOR DRIVING
UNIFICATION.
UNDER ONE UNIFIED FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, ALL OF CYPRUS COULD
REOPEN TRADE WITH TURKEY AND
HAVE ACCESS TO THE E.U. COMMON
MARKET.
AND SOMETHING ELSE OFFERS
BENEFITS FOR BOTH COMMUNITIES:
NEWLY DISCOVERED DEPOSITS OF
NATURAL GAS OFF THE SOUTHERN, OR
GREEK CYPRIOT, PART OF THE
ISLAND.
>> IT WILL GIVE SUBSTANTIAL
REVENUES FOR BOTH.
IT WILL BE PROMISING NOT JUST
FOR THE PRESENT GENERATION, BUT
FOR THE FUTURE GENERATIONS.
WE HAVE NO PLAN B.
OUR DETERMINATION IS TO RESOLVE
THE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: ABDULLAH CANGIL,
THE TURKISH CYPRIOT MAN WE MET,
SAYS THE PEOPLE OF THE ISLAND
ARE READY TO LIVE TOGETHER
AGAIN.
IN FACT, HE'S IN CONTACT WITH
THE GREEK CYPRIOT HE CONSIDERS
THE REAL OWNER OF HIS HOME.
THEY'RE NOW FRIENDS.
>> Reporter: IS PEACE POSSIBLE?
>> I WOULD SAY THAT IF THE GREEK
AND TURKISH CYPRIOTS WERE LEFT
ON THEIR OWN WITH NO
MOTHERLANDS OR ANYBODY ELSE
INTERFERING, YES, PEACE WOULD BE
POSSIBLE.
IF IT DOESN'T HAPPEN NOW WITHIN
THIS YEAR, IT WILL NEVER HAPPEN.
SO, EITHER IT'S NOW OR NEVER, I
FEEL.
>> Sreenivasan: NEW CHARACTERS
WITH AUTISM ARE BEING FEATURED
ON CHILDREN'S TV AND IN FILM, IN
"SESAME STREET" AND IN THE NEW
"POWER RANGERS" MOVIE.
READ MORE ABOUT IT AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: 2014 WAS THE
HOTTEST YEAR ON EARTH SINCE
MODERN RECORD-KEEPING BEGAN IN
1880.
THAT IS, UNTIL 2015.
AND THEN THAT WAS REPLACED BY
THE HOTTEST YEAR ON RECORD,
2016.
IN ADVANCE OF EARTH DAY, WHICH
OCCURS THREE WEEKS FROM TODAY ON
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, THE NEW
EDITION OF "NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC"
MAGAZINE OUT THIS WEEK, AND THE
WEB SITE www.natgeo.com HAVE
PUBLISHED "SEVEN THINGS YOU NEED
TO KNOW ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE."
TO DISCUSS THAT GUIDE AND
RELATED ISSUES, I AM JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
SUSAN GOLDBERG.
FIRST, WHY DOES "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" FEEL IT'S NECESSARY
TO DO THIS TYPE OF A STORY?
>> WE WANT TO DO STORIES ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE BECAUSE "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" HAS BEEN DOING THIS
KIND OF COVERAGE FOR OUR--
REALLY, THE ENTIRETY OF OUR
129-YEAR HISTORY.
WE'VE BEEN WRITING ABOUT THE
PLANET AND THE HEALTH OF THE
PLANET, ANIMALS, THE
ENVIRONMENT, HISTORY, AND
CULTURES.
AND ALL OF THESE TOPICS ARE
AFFECTED BY WHAT WE'RE SEEING
WITH CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE NOT A
PARTISAN ORGANIZATION.
YOU'RE NOT TRYING TO TAKE SIDES
IN THE POLITICAL DEBATE, THOUGH
YOU ARE STRONGLY PRO-SCIENCE AND
PRO-FACT.
>> WELL, WHAT WE ALWAYS SAY
IS WE'RE ON THE SIDE OF SCIENCE,
WE'RE ON THE SIDE OF THE FACTS,
AND WE'RE ON THE SIDE OF THE
PLANET.
AND I THINK YOU CAN BE ON THE
SIDE OF THE PLANET AND NOT BE
PARTISAN.
WE ARE A PROUDLY AND STRONGLY
NONPARTISAN ORGANIZATION, BUT
WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO DO IS GIVE
POLICY MAKERS AND THE PUBLIC THE
FACTS SO THEY CAN MAKE INFORMED
DECISIONS ABOUT THINGS LIKE
CLIMATE CHANGE, THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
AND HOW TO KEEP THE PLANET
HEALTHY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT THE COVER
OF THE PIECE.
IT RATTLES OFF SOME OF THESE
SEVEN REASONS.
THE WORLD IS WARMING; NUMBER
TWO, IT'S BECAUSE OF US; AND
THREE, WE'RE SURE.
THOSE ARE USUALLY THE TOPICS
THAT ARE THE MOST CHALLENGED BY
CLIMATE-CHANGE SKEPTICS OR
DENIERS.
>> PEOPLE ALMOST VIEW HOW THEY
VIEW CLIMATE CHANGE AS PART OF
THEIR IDENTITY.
THE WAY I THINK WE CAN PLAY A
ROLE HERE IS HELP PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND BY PRESENTING STORIES
THROUGH PICTURES, THROUGH
AMAZING GRAPHICS, AND ALSO
DISHING UP A HEALTHY DOSE OF THE
FACTS, BUT DOING SO IN A WAY
THAT WILL DRAW PEOPLE IN, RATHER
THAN PUT THEM OFF.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
SECTIONS IN YOUR MAGAZINE IS
THAT THE ICE IS MELTING FAST.
WE HAVE HEARD SEVERAL DIFFERENT
STORIES JUST IN THE LAST FEW
MONTHS ABOUT ICE SHELVES
BREAKING OFF.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY SIGNIFICANT
IN TWO WAYS.
IF YOU TOOK ALASKA AND
CALIFORNIA'S LAND MASS TOGETHER,
THAT'S HOW MUCH SEA ICE DIDN'T
FORM THIS YEAR IN THE ARCTIC.
AND THEN WHAT-- AND SO THAT'S
ONE ASPECT OF THE STORY.
THE OTHER IS THE MELTING OF THE
ICE SHEETS AND THE GLACIERS IN
GREENLAND AND IN THE ANTARCTIC
AND THE MELTING OF THOSE IS WHAT
IS CAUSING THE SEA LEVEL RISE
THAT WE'RE ALREADY STARTING TO
SEE.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'RE ALSO
SEEING WILDLIFE BEING IMPACTED
AROUND THE WORLD.
I MEAN, THERE WERE STORIES JUST
IN THE LAST FEW WEEKS ABOUT HUGE
CHUNKS OF THE GREAT BARRIER REEF
THAT ARE DEAD.
>> EXACTLY.
AND THE CORAL IS JUST ONE ASPECT
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH THE
RISE OF SEA TEMPERATURES AND THE
RISING ACIDIFICATION OF THE
SEAS.
SO WE'RE SEEING ANIMALS SHOWING
UP IN PLACE WHERE'S THEY NEVER
REALLY HAVE BEFORE, WHETHER
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS UNDERNEATH THE WATER OR
ON THE LAND.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, AND
THIS IS AT A TIME WHEN YOU HAVE
NEW LEADERSHIP AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AND ALSO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY, AND THEY'RE
MAKING FAIRLY SIGNIFICANT POLICY
JUDGMENTS RIGHT NOW.
>> THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
PROPOSED A 31% CUTBACK IN THE
E.P.A., AND WHILE, THIS OF
COURSE, HAS TO GO THROUGH
CONGRESS, AND IT COULD LOOK
DIFFERENT ON THE END, THE
PRESIDENT'S BUDGET IS ALWAYS A
GOOD INDICATION OF HIS AGENDA.
SO HE WANTS TO CUT BACK THE
E.P.A. 31%, DISMANTLE PROGRAMS
TO CLEAN UP THE GREAT LAKES,
CLEAN UP CHESAPEAKE BAY, CLEAN
UP PUGET SOUND AND ANY NUMBER OF
OTHER AREAS.
SO IT'S OUR JOB AT "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" NOT TO COMMENT ON
THE POLICY CHANGE, BUT TO
EXPLAIN HOW THAT COULD AFFECT
PEOPLE AND WILDLIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: SUSAN
GOLDBERG, EDITOR IN CHIEF OF
"NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC" JOINING US
FROM WASHINGTON TODAY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, HARI, APPRECIATE
IT.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER 111
VICTORIES AND FOUR NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS IN A ROW, THE
UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM FINALLY
KNOWS HOW THEIR OPPONENTS FEEL.
IN ONE OF THE BIGGEST UPSETS IN
COLLEGE BASKETBALL HISTORY,
MISSISSIPPI STATE BEAT
CONNECTICUT IN THEIR SEMI-FINAL
GAME OF THE N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT
LAST NIGHT.
GUARD MORGAN WILLIAMS SANK THE
WINNING JUMPSHOT AT THE BUZZER
IN OVERTIME TO BEAT UCONN 66-64.
MISSISSIPPI STATE WILL PLAY
SOUTH CAROLINA FOR THE NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP TOMORROW NIGHT.
FRANCINE WILSON'S 1977 TRIAL FOR
KILLING HER ABUSIVE HUSBAND
CHANGED THE WAY DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE IS VIEWED BY THE
PUBLIC, POLICE AND THE JUDICIAL
SYSTEM.
WORD NOW FROM HER SON THAT
WILSON DIED LAST WEEK IN
LEIGHTON, ALABAMA.
AFTER SUFFERING FROM YEARS OF
PHYSICAL ABUSE, WILSON KILLED
HER HUSBAND BY SETTING FIRE TO
THEIR HOME WHILE HE SLEPT.
AT HER MURDER TRIAL, A JURY
FOUND HER NOT GUILTY BY REASON
OF TEMPORARY INSANITY IN WHAT
HAS BECOME KNOWN AS THE "BURNING
BED" DEFENSE.
FRANCINE WILSON WAS 69.
AND ANOTHER PASSING TO NOTE:
THE ARTIST WHO CREATED THE
ICONIC RAINBOW FLAG OF THE GAY
RIGHTS MOVEMENT, GILBERT BAKER,
HAS DIED.
BAKER, WHO LIKED TO CALL HIMSELF
THE "GAY BETSY ROSS," CREATED
THE FLAG IN 1978, AND IT WAS
FIRST CARRIED AT THE GAY PRIDE
PARADE THAT YEAR IN SAN
FRANCISCO, WHERE FRIENDS
GATHERED LAST NIGHT TO
COMMEMORATE BAKER AND HIS
LEGACY.
BAKER SAID EACH OF THE FLAG'S
COLORS HAD MEANING, SUCH AS RED
FOR LIFE, ORANGE FOR HEALING AND
BLUE FOR PEACE.
GILBERT BAKER DIED AT HIS HOME
IN NEW YORK CITY YESTERDAY.
HE WAS 65.
ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SUNDAY,
HOW BREXIT COULD AFFECT DAILY
LIFE IN THE BRITISH TERRITORY OF
GIBRALTAR.
>> WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN WITH
ALL THE GROCERIES AND THE SHOES
AND OTHER THINGS WE EXPORT FROM
SPAIN TO... TO U.K.?
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
SPEAKING TO BUSINESS LEADERS IN
COLUMBUS, OHIO, TODAY, VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE PREDICTED
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SUPREME COURT
NOMINEE, JUDGE NEIL GORSUCH,
WILL WIN SENATE CONFIRMATION
NEXT WEEK "ONE WAY OR ANOTHER."
REPUBLICANS NEED EIGHT
DEMOCRATIC AND INDEPENDENT
SENATORS TO REACH THE 60 VOTES
REQUIRED UNDER CURRENT RULES TO
CONFIRM GORSUCH, BUT REPUBLICANS
HAVE HINTED THEY'RE WILLING TO
CHANGE THE RULES TO CONFIRM HIM
BY A SIMPLE MAJORITY.
SO FAR, ONLY TWO DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS HAVE SAID THEY'LL VOTE
FOR GORSUCH; MOST HAVE VOWED TO
FILIBUSTER.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.